Description turns private intent into an observable brief.
AI cannot reliably infer the audience in your head, the tradeoff you care about, or the standard you will use to reject the result.
If those things matter, make them visible.
A high-signal description contains five parts: the desired outcome, the relevant context, the audience or user, the hard constraints, and the evidence or test that defines success.
Examples help when they reveal a preference, not when they merely add more text.
Describe tradeoffs instead of adjectives.
Make it professional” leaves many interpretations.
Write for a skeptical engineering lead, keep the claim narrow, show the operational cost, and avoid marketing language” gives the system decisions it can act on.
Imagine asking for a launch plan.
A weak description says, “Create a great launch strategy.
A useful one names the product stage, target user, available channels, budget, prohibited claims, required deliverables, and the metric that will determine whether the experiment continues.
Description is not a one-time prompt ritual.
During collaboration, update the shared artifact and acceptance criteria as you learn.
During delegation, package the final state so another agent or another session can resume without reconstructing the conversation.
The common failure is context dumping.
More context can hide the signal.
Remove history that does not change the decision, label uncertain facts, separate requirements from suggestions, and put the most important constraint where it cannot be missed.
First, translate intent into an outcome, context, constraints, and evidence.
Second, describe the tradeoff the AI must preserve.
Third, prefer a small high-signal brief over a long noisy prompt.